---
title: The Definitive Guide to Locking Down an iPhone
description:
  A step-by-step guide to completely locking down an iPhone or iPad, for parents who are
  serious about protecting their kids from the dangers of unrestricted online activity.
---

{% .lead %} With a little hard work, it's possible to entirely lock down an iPhone or iPad
so that it is _extremely safe_ for your child to use. Thankfully, in recent versions of
iOS, Apple gives parents all the tools they need to limit and control access, apps, and
content. The bad news is that these controls are scattered over an unintuitive hodge-podge
of settings screens, and there are several important loopholes that are easy to miss.

{% .lead %} This tutorial will walk you step by step through the process.

{% callout %}

This article is written for parents wanting to take a _very strict_ approach to locking
down their child's iPhone.

{% /callout %}

## The Safest Phone is No Phone

Before you get to work locking down your child's iPhone with this tutorial, I'd be remiss
if I didn't advocate for what I think is the simplest and most effective way to protect
your child, and that is&mdash;**don't give them a phone**. It's become incredibly common
for almost all kids to have phones, but it truly doesn't have to be that way. I would
highly advise you to hold out as long as you possibly can before giving your kids a phone.
And if you already have given them one, think hard about taking it back.

I am the father of four children (currently 16, 15, 12, and 9), and only my oldest son has
a phone, which he got a few weeks _after_ his 16th birthday. Many generations of kids have
survived their pre-teen and adolescent years without a phone, and yours can too. I realize
it's bucking an extremely strong societal norm, but absolutely nothing beats the
simplicity and safety of them simply not having a phone. And there's a growing amount of
research showing that you might be greatly helping their cognitive and emotional
development.

## Start by deleting apps

{% callout %}

For brevity's sake, this tutorial only refers to iPhones, but these steps work the same
for **iPads.**

{% /callout %}

The iPhone comes with many built-in apps, and before you started working to lock down your
child's phone, you or they may have installed more. Therefore, the first thing you should
do is _delete every single app_ that they don't absolutely need.

To delete an app, tap and hold it's icon, until you see the option to _remove_ it:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/remove-app.png" alt="locking down an iPhone: how to delete an app" /%}

Then tap to _delete the app_:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/delete-app.png" alt="locking down an iPhone: confirm deleting an app" /%}

{% callout %}

For some reason, a few of the apps provided by Apple **do not give you the option to
delete** them&mdash;they only allow you to remove them from the home screen. If you
encounter some of these, don't worry, we'll vanquish them with the techniques explained
below.

{% /callout %}

Again, _delete as many apps as you can_&mdash;it's much simpler than disabling them
through the Screen Time settings below.

{% callout type="warning" %}

Both the **Apple Maps** and **Google Maps** apps can be used to view **nude photos,** and
should be deleted. For more details (including a recommendation for a replacement), see
[here](/docs/five-things-you-forgot-when-locking-down-your-kids-iphone#4-explicit-images-in-maps-apps).

{% /callout %}

## Getting Started with Screen Time

The main feature of an iPhone that you use to lock it down is a built in
application/setting called **Screen Time**. You may be familiar with this app, because
many adults use it to track how much time they spend on their phones, which is one of it's
primary purposes. But it also has some really powerful features to completely control what
your kid has access to.

To get started, get your child's phone, and go to **Settings &rarr; Screen Time**, as
shown below:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/settings-screentime.png" caption="Settings &rarr; Screen Time" alt="locking down an iPhone: start at 'Settings' -> 'Screen Time'" /%}

Then, click to _turn on_ Screen Time:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/turn-on-screentime.png" caption="Turn on Screen Time, then click 'Continue'" alt="locking down an iPhone: tap to turn onn Screen Time" /%}

### "My iPhone" or "My Child's"

The next prompt will ask you if the phone is "My iPhone", or "My Child's".

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/mine-or-childs.png" caption="Read below for guidance on what to choose..." alt="locking down an iPhone: what to do when it asks you 'Is This iPhone for Yourself or Your Child?'?" /%}

You can select _either_ option, however, if you choose "My Child's", you'll need to have
**Family Sharing** already set up. You can pause at this point and set up Family Sharing
if you want, by following the
[instructions here](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201088). The benefit of setting up
Family Sharing and choosing "My Child's" is that you'll be able to control their settings
and view reports of activity _from your own device._ The only real downsides are the time
it takes to do the initial setup of Family Sharing, and a restriction that once your kids
turn 18, they will be able to disable these restrictions themselves. On the other hand, if
you choose "This is My iPhone" you'll still be able to protect the device to the same
degree, you'll just have to make any changes _from your child's device_ rather than from
your own.

At this point, the instructions for continuing **briefly diverge,** depending on what
choice you made on the last screen.

### Setup wizard steps for Family Sharing

{% callout %}

**Skip this section** if you chose _"My iPhone"_ in the preceding step. You won't see the
below screens, and you'll rejoin us in the next section.

{% /callout %}

If you chose _"My Child's iPhone",_ you'll be presented with several screens guiding you
through some setup steps. We'll be _skipping_ most of them, because you can manage all of
the same settings from the normal interface, and it's important you learn how to do so.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/wizard-downtime.png" caption="Choose NOT NOW (you'll set this up later)" alt="locking down an iPhone: choose 'not now' when prompted about Downtime, you'll set this up later" /%}

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/wizard-app-limits.png" caption="Choose NOT NOW (you'll set this up later)" alt="locking down an iPhone: choose 'not now' when prompted about App Limits, you'll set these up later if necessary" /%}

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/wizard-content-privacy.png" caption="Choose CONTINUE" alt="locking down an iPhone: click 'continue' when shown the screen about Content & Privacy" /%}

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/wizard-passcode-recovery.png" caption="Enter your Apple ID or skip by clicking 'Cancel'" alt="locking down an iPhone: enter your Apple ID to allow for Screen Time passcode recovery" /%}

### Setting a passcode

At this point, if you are setting up your child's iPhone _without_ Family Sharing you'll
need to click the button labeled **Use Screen Time passcode**, shown here:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/use-screen-time-passcode.png" caption="If not using Family Sharing, tap to set a passcode" alt="locking down an iPhone: click 'Use Screen Time Passcode' and set a totally unique 4-digit code" /%}

{% callout type="warning" title="Choose a unique passcode!" %}

It's very important that you choose an **entirely random** 4 digit passcode. Please do not
use something easily guessable by your child, like a birthday, your street address, your
debit card pin, or any 4 digit number you may have ever used for a padlock or alarm
system, or anything like that. Most people re-use the same pins and combinations, so if
don't choose something totally unique for this passcode, it's very likely your child will
be able to easily guess it.

{% /callout %}

At the next screen, enter and confirm a _4 digit passcode:_

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/set-passcode.png" caption="Set and confirm your UNIQUE passcode" alt="locking down an iPhone: when prompted, choose a unique passcode to protect Screen Time" /%}

{% callout type="warning" title="Careful with that passcode!" %}

Screen Time currently only gives you the option to use a 4 digit passcode. The downside of
this is that **if your child is able to see you** while you're entering this code, it's
extremely easy for them to remember it. It's worth it to be _very paranoid_ about this.
Take an extra moment to ensure your child is out of the room, or not anywhere where they
can at all see the screen of their device whenever you enter this code.

{% /callout %}

## Downtime

The Screen Time controls have five main sections. We'll work through them one by one,
starting with **Downtime**, although we'll have the most to say about the fifth area,
which is the most important.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/downtime.png" caption="Downtime" alt="locking down an iPhone: 'Downtime' controls, used to specify schedules for permitted activity" /%}

**Downtime** allows you to _enforce a scheduled period_ when your child has no access (or
limited access) to their device. While not strictly necessary to keep your kids safe,
enabling Downtime is almost always a good idea. Kids (especially teenagers) are often
awake for hours in the early part of the night, and if they have access to their phones
and are bored, bad things frequently happen. Restricting their device usage at night also
helps encourage good sleep habits.

Tap to enable a scheduled downtime, and set the schedule for a time that seems appropriate
for your child.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/scheduled-downtime.png" caption="Enabled Scheduled Downtime" alt="locking down an iPhone: tap to enable scheduled Downtime" /%}

{% callout type="warning" %}

Be sure to select **Block at Downtime** as well (shown below). If you _don't_ enable it,
your child will be able to ignore the Downtime schedule, rendering it little more than a
suggestion.

{% /callout %}

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/block-at-downtime.png" caption="Turn on 'Block at Downtime'" alt="locking down an iPhone: be sure to turn on 'Block at Downtime', or else Downtime limits can be overridden by your child" /%}

## App Limits

The next section on the main screen is for **App Limits**.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/app-limits.png" caption="App Limits" alt="locking down an iPhone: App Limits settings" /%}

This tutorial won't cover App Limits in depth, because they're not central to protecting
your kids. Every app that could be dangerous should be completely blocked by techniques
shown later in this tutorial. If you have some apps that you only want grant limited time
for each day, then App Limits can be a useful tool for that end. However, App Limits is
significantly limited in that it doesn't let you specify limits for _specific apps_, only
_app categories_, which you have no control over.

In my opinion, web-browsing (Safari) and all social media apps should be _entirely
eliminated_ from your child's iPhone, not regulated with time limits. Phones should
provide only tools for communication (email, phone, and texting), plus required safe apps
for school, and work, as needed. Web browsing should only be done on a computer, ideally
in a public place, with a tool like [Gertrude](/) to restrict access and provide
supervision.

{% callout %}

There are a few apps (like **Messages**&mdash;for sending/receiving _texts_), for which
Apple provides no way to disable. One workaround is to set an App Limit for **1 minute**
for that app's category&mdash;provided that doesn't cripple other important apps in the
same category.

{% /callout %}

## Communication Limits

The next section on the main screen is for **Communication Limits**.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/communication-limits.png" caption="Communication Limits" alt="locking down an iPhone: Communication Limits settings" /%}

The **Communication Limits** settings area (shown below) allows you to control who your
child can communicate with.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/communication-limits-settings.png" caption="Communication Limits settings" alt="locking down an iPhone: the inner screen of settings for Screen Time Communication Limits" /%}

Depending on your particular situation, it might be wise and appropriate to limit
communication to specifically approved contacts, or prohibit communication during
Downtime. But as this area is not usually critical for safety and is highly dependent on
your child and unique context, we won't try to give any guidelines in this tutorial.

## Always Allowed

The next section on the main screen is for **Always Allowed**.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/always-allowed.png" caption="Always Allowed" alt="locking down an iPhone: Always Allowed lets you specify apps not subject to Downtime" /%}

This section is a bit confusing. In my opinion it should be a screen within the Downtime
settings area. It's only normal purpose is to _bypass Downtime restrictions_ in certain
ways.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/always-allowed-settings.png" caption="These settings allow you to <b>bypass</b> Downtime restrictions" alt="locking down an iPhone: Always Allowed settings let you pick apps that are not subject to Downtime schedule restrictions" /%}

A good example of a good _Allowed App_ would be the **Clock** app, if you wanted your
child to be able to use their iPhone as an alarm clock, and have access to set it after
their Downtime schedule kicks in.

You can also add exemptions for certain contacts that can always be contacted, no matter
what time it is. Used sparingly, these controls can provide a nice layer of needed
customization on top of the Downtime restrictions.

## Content &amp; Privacy Restrictions

If your goal is to completely lock down your child's iPhone, making it a truly safe
device, most of the controls you're going to need to set are in the fifth and final
section, labeled **Content & Privacy Restrictions**:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/content-privacy-restrictions.png" caption="Most of your work will happen in this section" alt="locking down an iPhone: Cthe Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions area is where most of the important controls and settings live" /%}

Start by tapping to _enable restrictions:_

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/enable-restrictions.png" caption="Toggle to enable Content & Privacy Restrictions" alt="locking down an iPhone: click to enable Content & Privacy Restrictions" /%}

### iTunes &amp; App Store Purchases

Then drill into the section labeled _iTunes &amp; App Store Purchases_, shown below:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/itunes-app-store-purchases.png" caption="Tap to drill into iTunes & App Store next" alt="locking down an iPhone: Content & Privacy Restrictions > iTunes & App Store Purchases" /%}

For maximum safety, we recommend disabling all three of the settings shown below by
setting them to **Don't allow**.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/dont-allow-installing-deleting-apps.png" caption="<b>Don't allow</b> installing, deleting, or in-app purchases" alt="locking down an iPhone: don't allow installing apps, deleting apps, or in-app purchases" /%}

Don't worry, you'll _still be able to add new apps_ when you child needs them and you
approve. You'll simply have to temporarily allow installing apps in this section, install
the app, and then revoke the privilege again.

{% callout %}

After you set the settings to what is shown above, **you won't be able to delete apps.**
That's one of the reasons we started by encouraging you to first delete all unnecessary
apps. Don't worry though, if you ever later on want to remove an app from your child's
phone, all you need to do is 1) enter the passcode, 2) temporarily _allow_ deleting
apps, 3) delete the app, and then 4) disable deleting apps again.

{% /callout %}

### Allowed Apps

Next, tap the back button to get back to the _Content & Privacy Restrictions_ screen, and
then drill down into the second section, labeled **Allowed Apps**:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/allowed-apps.png" caption="Go back one screen, then choose <b>Allowed Apps</b>" alt="locking down an iPhone: Content & Privacy Restrictions > Allowed Apps" /%}

This is another section that is a bit confusing at the outset, because there is another
screen at the main level called **Always Allowed** that looks very similar. That screen
let you exempt certain apps from Downtime. This screen lets you enable/disable apps
entirely, irrespective of Downtime.

This is an **extremely important area** because it's the only way you can disable/remove
certain apps, like Safari.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-safari-siri.png" caption="Disable any apps you want to block. Be sure to disable Safari and Siri" alt="locking down an iPhone: disable apps that Apple doesn't let you delete" /%}

Work through the list of apps, _leaving enabled **only the apps** that are truly
necessary, and you're **sure are safe**_. We encourage you to take a _very conservative_
approach: kids' phones should be very minimal. The more apps you allow, the more chance
you've accidentally opened up something that could be dangerous for them.

{% callout title="How do I know if an app is safe?" %}

The only way to really know is to **thoroughly test** it. It's very important to
understand that apps with a very benign purpose can have **serious loopholes** you may not
have thought of.

**One story** might help drive this home. At one point I was considering allowing the
_Audible_ app (for listening to audiobooks) on an old phone we had lying around. I figured
as long as I controlled which books were downloaded (because my kids didn't have the
ability to purchase a new book), the app should be safe, right? I took a few minutes to
explore the app, and found that there was a feature where you could search for new
audiobooks. A few well-crafted search terms filled the screen with **adult books with
semi-pornagraphic covers.** I didn't install the app after all.

Whenever you're about to allow a new app, take 5 minutes exploring the app. Imagine
someone will give you $10,000 if you can find inappropriate content on it. You'd be
surprised how often you can.

{% /callout %}

{% callout title="Disabling Safari" %}

We **strongly urge** that you _entirely disable_ the Safari browser on your child's phone
or device. Simply put, it's just too risky to allow Safari on a child's phone, no matter
their age or gender. Apple does grant some controls limiting what websites can be
accessed, but in our experience, these controls are for the most part extremely deficient,
and unreliable.

Accessing necessary websites for school should be done on a computer, ideally in a public
place, with a filter that blocks every site except those you have explicitly safe-listed.

{% /callout %}

{% callout title="Do I need to disable Siri?" type="warning" %}

Parents often don't realize this, but having access to Siri puts the entire internet at
your child's fingertips. Even if you have Safari blocked, Siri offers an alternative
method of searching and browsing the internet. Your child can simply ask Siri to look
something up, and she will happily respond with snippets of content **including images**.

{% /callout %}

### Content Restrictions

Next, tap the back button to get back to the _Content & Privacy Restrictions_ screen, and
then drill down into the second section, labled **Content Restrictions**:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/content-restrictions.png" caption="Go back one screen, then choose <b>Content Restrictions</b>" alt="locking down an iPhone: Content Restrictions, where many of the most important settings live" /%}

Which brings you to this screen:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/content-restrictions-settings.png" alt="locking down an iPhone: Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions > Content Restrictions" /%}

There's a lot to take in on this screen. Loads of different settings. Go through _each
setting_ one by one, _turning it to the **safest (or most disabled) option,**_ unless you
have a good reason to do otherwise. For example, anywhere it offers you the options of
"Clean" or "Explicit", choose "Clean", if it offers "Off" and "On" choose "On", and if it
offers "Don't Allow" or "Allow" choose "Allow".

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/clean-not-explicit.png" caption="choose CLEAN, OFF, or DON'T ALLOW for most options" alt="locking down an iPhone: choose 'clean', 'off', or 'don't allow' for most options in Content Restrictions" /%}

Three of the sub-sections deserve particular attention, the first is **Apps**:

### Content Restrictions &rarr; Apps

Within _Content & Privacy Restrictions_, there is a drill down for a section labled
**Apps**, as shown below:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/content-restrictions-apps.png" alt="locking down an iPhone: the 'Apps' section of Content Restrictions has to do with app age ratings" /%}

In my opinion, this area should be renamed as well. It's confusing because this is the
third screen that seems to control access to apps, we've already seen _Always Allowed_
apps, and _Allowed Apps_, and now here we have just _Apps_.

The purpose of this area is really to control **what age rating** of apps may be
installed, which you can see from the drill-down screen:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/app-age-rating.png" caption="This screen should be called <b>App Age Rating</b>" alt="locking down an iPhone: understanding the Content Restrictions > Apps screen" /%}

What you choose here really only matters if you _have also allowed_ your child the
authority to _install apps_, which I don't recommend. Assuming you have not allowed
installing apps, I recommend setting this to at least `9+` or `12+`, or even
`Allow all`&mdash;since you will personally be individually approving and installing each
app. Setting it to lower than that can cause apps you approve to not show up (see below).

{% callout title="An app I installed for my child won't show up!" type="warning" %}

If you chose a very conservative value like `4+` for your app _age rating_, you may find
that apps you approve of and want your child to have access to _won't appear on their home
screen_. That's because most apps that aren't specifically designed for very young
children have ratings higher than `4+`. To fix this, just make sure you have removed the
right to install apps, and then set the age limit to a higher level which allows the app
you're trying to install.

{% /callout %}

### Content Restrictions &rarr; Web

The second area that requires some more detailed explanation is the **Web Content**
drill-down:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/web-content.png" alt="locking down an iPhone: Content Restrictions > Web Content" /%}

It is critical that you choose **Allowed Websites Only** for this section.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/allowed-websites-only.png" caption="Make <b>sure</b> you select 'Allowed Websites Only'" alt="locking down an iPhone: Content Restrictions > Web Content should be set to 'Allowed Websites Only'" /%}

Even if you have taken our recomendation to _entirely disable web-browsing by removing the
Safari app_, you still need to set this setting to _Allowed Websites Only_. That's because
many apps have what amounts to a built-in web-browser, and reach out to the internet to
load content when your child is using them. Without this setting chosen, otherwise safe
apps can become alternative portals to the internet.

{% callout title="Why not just 'Limit Adult Websites'?" type="warning" %}

It might be tempting to choose the second option: **Limit Adult Websites**, but we urge
you not to. If you do, you're trusting that someone has correctly identified and
categorized over 2 billion websites, and is staying on top of the nearly 250,000 new
websites being created every day.

{% /callout %}

### Content Restrictions &rarr; Siri

The third and final area that deserves special treatment is the **Siri &rarr; Web Search
Content:**

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/siri-web-search-content.png" alt="locking down an iPhone: be sure to disallow Siri > Web Search Content" /%}

Make sure you've got this set to **Don't Allow.**

## Testing it Out

Once you've got all your settings dialed in, you'll need to spend a few minutes testing.
Exit out of the Settings app, and start kicking the tires. Check and make sure that no
apps are available that you did not intend to make available. Double-check that Siri is
not working. This would also be a good time to double-check all of your approved apps. Use
the thought experiment I proposed above: spend a few minutes with each app, imagining you
would immediately win $10,000 if you could find something inappropriate or dangerous.
Imagine you are a bored, impulsive, motivated teenager with a lot of persistence and time
on their hands.

{% callout %}

We also recommend you check the items in our article about
[things you probably forgot to lock down](/docs/five-things-you-forgot-when-locking-down-your-kids-iphone).

{% /callout %}
