---
title: Five Things You Forgot When Locking Down your Kid's iPhone
description:
  The five things you probably forgot when locking down your kid's iPhone... and the
  bizarrely unintuitive fixes it takes to fix them.
---

{% .lead .mb-12 %} I consider myself pretty tech-savvy: I've been a software developer for
15 years, and have apps in the App store. So when I locked down my oldest son's first
iPhone, I was fairly confident I had covered all my bases. But boy, was I wrong. _Grab
your child's phone **right this minute** and check if you missed any of these too._

{% callout title="What's with all the goats? 🐐" %}

In order to avoid filling this post with harmful images, all of the examples below show
pictures of **goats.** Every time you see one, **imagine your child were searching for
something sexually explicit** or otherwise inappropriate.

{% /callout %}

## 1. `#images` iMessage App

Apple's built-in **Messages** app comes with a growing number of app-integrations (called
`iMessage apps`) that allow for sending non-text items in text messages.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/imessage-apps.png" caption="this row of mini-apps is shown when composing a text message" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: iMessage mini-apps can expose your child to explicit content" /%}

If your child clicks on the `#images` (Hashtag Images) app (shown above), they are able to
_search through a huge inventory of animated gifs_. The image below shows a harmless
search query, but there are loads of sexually suggestive and otherwise inappropriate
images your child shouldn't be able to browse.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/messages-images.png" caption="close of up the '#images' app" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: the #images app should be removed for your child's safety" /%}

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/searching-images.png" caption="Imagine I searched for something other than 'GOATS'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: searchable animated gifs your child should have access to" /%}

{% click-to-reveal title="Show me how to fix it" %}

**1.** Start by scrolling to the _far right_ tapping on the **More** icon:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/messages-more.png" caption="Scroll to the right and click this icon" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: start by clicking the 'more' icon to remove the #images app" /%}

**2.** Next, swipe left to _remove the app from "Favorites"_.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/images-remove-from-favorites.png" caption="Swipe left to remove from Favorites" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: swipe left to remove #images from favorites" /%}

**3.** Then the app will appear in the section labeled _MORE APPS_. Swipe left again in
this section to fully delete the app:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/images-delete-app.png" caption="Swipe left to delete the app once and for all" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: then delete the #images app" /%}

**4.** Repeat for any other iMessage Apps that may already be installed. The `#images` app
is the main offender that comes pre-installed, but it's possible your child has already
installed other iMessage apps that expose them to undesirable content.

**5.** Ensure that your child doesn't have the ability to _re-install_ this (or any other)
app by going to "Settings > Screen Time > content & Privacy Restrictions > iTunes & App
Store Purchases" and choose _Don't Allow_ for "Installing Apps":

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/dont-allow-installing-apps.png" caption="Remove authority to install apps, or they can re-install" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: remove authority to install apps to prevent more unsafe iMessage apps" /%}

{% callout type="warning" alt=true %}

This same exploit exists on the Messages app **for the Mac.** Unfortunately, there doesn't
seem to be a similar way to delete the app on macOS. If your child uses a Mac computer,
the only way to remove this is by deleting the Messages app, or using an internet filter
program like [Gertrude](/) to block searching for innappropriate images.

{% /callout %}

{% /click-to-reveal %}

## 2. Explicit Images in Maps Apps

The built-in Apple Maps app and Google Maps are (surprisingly) not safe for kids, and
should be deleted. They are unsafe because both apps will show _any images_ that may have
been uploaded by business owners or patrons. For instance, _many strip clubs post nude
photos_ which can be accessed through these apps. No Screen Time setting can prevent these
images from being viewed, the only way to secure your child's phone is to delete the apps.
(In the "how to fix" section below we recommend an alternate map/navigation app.)

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/maps-images.png" caption="The images from strip clubs and adult bookstores aren't so innocent" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Apple Maps and Google Maps can show explicit photos to your child" /%}

{% click-to-reveal title="show me how to fix it" %}

**Step 1.** Temporarily _allow deleting apps_ in Screen Time by going to "Settings >
Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions > iTunes & App Store Purchases", as shown
below:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/screentime-content-privacy-restrictions.png" caption="Go to \"Settings > Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions\"" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: go to Settings > Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions" /%}

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/itunes-app-store-purchases.png" caption="Then to \"iTunes & App Store Purchases\"" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: iTunes and App Store Purchases" /%}

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/allow-deleting-apps.png" caption="Temporarily ALLOW deleting apps" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: temporarily allow deleting apps" /%}

You may find that you are already allowing Deleting apps. If so, just leave the setting as
is, but we do recommend you revoke that privilege after deleting the map apps.

**Step 2.** Power off and restart the phone.

{% callout alt=true %}

If you've already deleted _Apple Maps_ and are only deleting _Google Maps_, you can skip
this step.

{% /callout %}

Once you've allowed deleting apps, for some reason iOS still won't let you delete the
_Apple Maps_ app. The workaround for this is to _fully power-off the phone and restart
it._ To power off the phone, hold down the "side" button and the "volume down" button at
the same time.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/slide-to-power-off.png" caption="Hold down side and volume down buttons to fully power off." alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: hold down side and volume down buttons to power off" /%}

After the phone has powered off, turn it on again by holding the right side button until
the Apple logo appears.

**Step 3.** Delete the app/s.

Once you've allowed deleting apps and restarted the phone after a full power-off, you can
_now_ click and hold the icon of the Apple maps (and/or the Google Maps app) and choose to
delete it.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/delete-apple-maps.png" caption="Press and hold the icon to delete Apple Maps" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: how to delete Apple Maps with Screen Time" /%}

**Step 4.** Now that the app is deleted, _disable again the ability to delete apps_ by
going back to "Settings > Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions > iTunes & App
Store Purchases":

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disallow-deleting-apps.png" caption="Remove the ability to delete apps again" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: then re-disable deleting apps" /%}

**Step 5.** Disable automatic software updates.

Every time iOS updates (which can happen automatically, without any intervention, during
the night when the phone is charging), the Apple Maps app _may_ come back. We aren't 100%
sure how often it does, it may only be for the large, yearly major iOS versions that
usually happen in the fall, or it may be more often&mdash;but it _definitely_ happens.

Go to the Settings app on your child's phone, then navigate to "General > Software
Update > Automatic Update", and disable all three options shown below:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-automatic-updates.png" caption="In Settings > General > Software Updates" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: disable automatic iOS software updates" /%}

{% callout alt=true type="warning" %}

Sadly, there is no way for you to prevent your child from turning automatic updates back
on. Therefore, we recommend that you **a)** don't show them this setting area, and **b)**
check this setting on their phone frequently, ideally when you notice your own phone has
updated, and **c)** proactively update their phones manually on a regular basis, so you
can check for the reappearance of Maps and other safety concerns, and also remove any
incentive for them to change this setting.

{% /callout %}

{% callout alt=true %}

If your child needs a map/navigation app, at the time of this writing (2/2023) the
**Waze** app does not allow viewing of business images, and should be a safe alternative
for older teens who need a turn-by-turn direction app.

{% /callout %}

{% /click-to-reveal %}

## 3. Internet Results in Spotlight

To test if your child's phone is vulnerable to this commonly missed item, _**pull down**
from the middle of the home screen_ to access the iPhone's built-in _search prompt_.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/spotlight-search.png" caption="Swipe down bring up Spotlight search, then type a search phrase" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: spotlight searching on an iPhone can access internet images" /%}

After pressing _Search_, _Spotlight_ leverages _Siri_ to search the internet and return
results, **including images**. Imagine a less innocent search query than `goats`:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/spotlight-search-results.png" caption="Spotlight search can pull images and other content from the internet" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: spotlight searching on iOS by default can load and display images from the web" /%}

{% click-to-reveal title="show me how to fix it" %}

This one is a little tricky to fix, because if you have Siri disabled via Screen Time, the
controls you need to fix this loophole are _not visible._

**Step 1.** Temporarily _allow_ the use of Siri by going to: Settings > Screen Time >
Content & Privacy Restrictions > Allowed Apps.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/allowed-apps.png" caption="Go to 'Allowed Apps'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Screen Time > Allowed Apps" /%}

Then, _temporarily allow_ Siri & Dictation (you'll disable it again once we get the
Spotlight searching features disabled).

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/enable-siri-dictation.png" caption="Temporarily <b>enable</b> Siri" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: temporarily enable Siri & Dictation" /%}

**Step 2.** Back in the _main settings screen_, you should now be able to see an option
for **Siri & Search**

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/siri-search-main.png" caption="Now you can find \"Siri & Search\" in the main Settings screen" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: now you can see \"Siri & Search\" in the main Settings app" /%}

Click to **disable "Show in Spotlight"**:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-show-in-spotlight.png" caption="DISABLE 'Show in Spotlight'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: diable 'Show in Spotlight'" /%}

**Step 3.** Finally, now that Siri can no longer provide results to Spotlight, you need to
_reverse step 1_ by disabling Siri & Dictation. Go to Settings > Screen Time > Content &
Privacy Restrictions, and disallow Siri & Dictation.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-siri-dictation.png" caption="<b>Disable</b> Siri again (same location as step 1)" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: re-disable Siri again in Screen Time" /%}

{% /click-to-reveal %}

## 4. Internet Results in "Look Up"

Most apps that deal with text (like ebook readers, Bible apps, Notes, etc.) allow the user
to _highlight a search term and **"Look Up"**_.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/look-up.png" caption="Highlight a word, then tap 'Look Up'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: highlight a word and tap 'Look Up'" /%}

By default, your child's iPhone can access Siri (and through it, the whole internet), when
"looking up" words, and Siri frequently displays **images** in the result set.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/look-up-results.png" caption="An example of images pulled from the web in response to a 'Look Up'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Look Up on iOS can access and display to your child images from the web" /%}

{% click-to-reveal title="show me how to fix it" %}

{% callout alt=true %}

These steps are nearly identical to the fix for Spotlight searching, except for what
setting to disable in step 2.

{% /callout %}

**Step 1.** Temporarily _allow_ the use of Siri by going to: Settings > Screen Time >
Content & Privacy Restrictions > Allowed Apps. (If you don't allow the use of Siri, the
settings screen we need to use next will be hidden and inaccessible.)

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/allowed-apps.png" caption="Go to 'Allowed Apps'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Screen Time -> Content & Privacy Restrictions > Allowed Apps" /%}

Then, _temporarily allow_ Siri & Dictation (you'll disable it again once we get the look
up internet search disabled).

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/enable-siri-dictation.png" caption="Temporarily <b>enable</b> Siri" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: temporarily enable Siri to fix the other settings" /%}

**Step 2.** Back in the _main settings screen_, you should now be able to see an option
for **Siri & Search**

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/siri-search-main.png" caption="Now you can go back to 'Settings > Siri & Search'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: now you can find 'Siri & Search' under the main Settings screen" /%}

Click to **disable "Show in Look Up"**:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-show-in-lookup.png" caption="DISABLE 'Show in Look Up'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: disable 'Show in Look Up' to prevent showing your child images and content from the internet" /%}

**Step 3.** Finally, now that Siri can no longer provide results to "Look Up", you need to
_reverse step 1_ by disabling Siri & Dictation. Go to Settings > Screen Time > Content &
Privacy Restrictions, and disallow Siri & Dictation.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-siri-dictation.png" caption="<b>Disable</b> Siri again (same location as step 1)" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: re-disable Siri in Screen Time after fixing the other settings" /%}

{% /click-to-reveal %}

## 5. Fully Disable Siri

A frequent mistake parents make is to leave the Siri virtual assistant enabled, or
partially enabled. While Siri can provide help for many harmless tasks, it can also bypass
other restrictions to access and _display almost any content on the internet._ To test if
your child's device is vulnerable, activate Siri and ask her to show you pictures of
something.

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/siri-search.png" caption="An example of images pulled from the web in response to a 'Look Up'" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Siri can show your child images and content from anywhere on the internet" /%}

Unfortunately, simply disabling Siri from the Screen Time settings is not sufficient. You
must first update a handful of Siri integration points and _then_ disable Siri, or else
multiple system services will still be able to use Siri to access the internet and show
content to your child.

{% click-to-reveal title="show me how to fix it" %}

**Step 1.** Before we disable Siri, we need to _adjust some settings._

Go to "Settings > Siri & Search":

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/siri-search-main.png" caption="Settings > Siri & Search" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Settings > Search (in the main Settings app screen)" /%}

Then disable all of the options shown below. If you don't disable these settings, then
Siri will still be able to (among other things) provide internet content for _Spotlight_
(searching) and _Look Up_ (clicking "Look Up" after highlighting a word in any app).

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/siri-disable-all.png" caption="Turn <b>all</b> of these settings OFF" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: disable all Siri system integrations for safety" /%}

**Step 2.** Disable app/Siri integrations _(optional)_.

{% callout alt=true %}

Although this step is less critically important for safety, we still advise you take a
moment and do it.

{% /callout %}

On the same settings screen from _step 1_, scroll down a bit further to find **individual
app settings** for Siri, shown below:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/siri-app-settings.png" caption="Individual app + Siri settings" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: here's where individual apps' integration with Siri can be controlled" /%}

_Tap on each app_ one at a time, and completely disable Siri from accessing/integrating
with the app:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-siri-app-settings.png" caption="Turn these all OFF for <b>every</b> app." alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: turn off all app Siri connections for safety" /%}

**Step 3.** Disable Siri in Screen Time.

Go to the main _Settings_ app, and then navigate to "Screen Time > Content & Privacy
Restrictions"

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/content-privacy-restrictions.png" caption="Settings > Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Settings > Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions" /%}

Then to _Allowed Apps_:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/allowed-apps.png" caption="Screen Time > Content & Privacy Restrictions > Allowed Apps" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: Allowed Apps (in Screen Time)" /%}

Then tap to _disable Siri & Dictation_:

{% image src="lockdown-iphone/disable-siri-dictation.png" caption="<b>Disable</b> Siri & Dictation" alt="what you forgot locking down your kid's iPhone: disable Siri and Dictation" /%}

{% /click-to-reveal %}

{% callout title="Step-by-step guide to locking down an iPhone" %}

If you haven't taken the time to carefully lock down your child's iPhone, we have a
highly-detailed, [step-by-step guide,](/docs/definitive-guide-to-locking-down-an-iphone)
including many screenshots.

{% /callout %}

{% article-feedback-form name="five-things" /%}
