---
title: Getting Started
pageTitle: Getting Started
---

There are a handful of things you need to do to get up and running with Gertrude. This
tutorial is meant to walk you through the required steps, and also to give you a bit of
practice using all of the core features of Gertrude. {% .lead %}

---

_**NOTE:** If you'd prefer to watch a step-by-step **video** showing all aspects of
getting started with Gertrude, [click here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N8kLEKls6UU)._

---

## Setting up your admin account

To start out, if you haven't already created a **Gertrude account** you'll need to do that
first. To create an account [click this link](https://dash.gertrude.app/signup) and follow
the sign-up instructions. The first 60 days are _totally free and you can cancel at any
time._

### Adding your first child

Once you have your Gertrude account created you'll need to start by adding at least one
child. A **"child"** in Gertrude represents _someone that you want to protect._ This is
very often one of your own children if you are a parent using Gertrude to protect your
kids&mdash;but it could also be a peer whom you are protecting in a relationship of
accountability. You'll need to add _at least one child_ to do anything useful with
Gertrude.

{% callout title="Regarding terminology..." %}

The most common scenario is for Gertrude to be used by _parents_ protecting their _kids_.
But that's definitely not the only way to use Gertrude. Peers, friends, relatives, etc.,
can all be protected, but for the sake of simplicity, we use the language of
**parent/child** throughout the Gertrude app and websites.

{% /callout %}

To _add a child,_ click the link in the dashboard of your Gertrude web admin account, or
select "children" from the side bar on the left hand and click the button to add a new
child.

{% image src="create-first-user.png" caption="Go to the 'Children' screen to add your first child" /%}

Enter the child's _name_, and click to save the new child.

{% image src="edit-user.png" caption="Enter your child's name, and click 'save'" /%}

### Monitoring child activity

While you are adding your first child, you can also set up **monitoring** if you wish.
Gertrude allows you to see everything _your children have typed_ and also can _take
periodic screenshots of your child's screens_ for you to review later. You can always
change these settings later, but we recommend enabling them for the greatest safety, and
also because it will help you learn about all of Gertrude's features as you work through
this tutorial.

{% image src="monitoring-options.png" caption="monitoring options" /%}

## Keychains & Keys

### Keychains

Near the bottom of the screen is a section that allows you to attach what we call
**"keychains"** to your child. One of the main features of Gertrude is that it acts as an
**internet filter** for your child's Mac computers. Gertrude's filter blocks the _entire
internet_, only allowing access to the sites and apps you specifically designate as safe.

{% callout title="Our unique approach" %}

Almost every other internet safety app which filters the internet works by _blocking
**categories of websites.**_ This sounds like a great idea in theory, but in practice the
internet is just _too large and growing too fast_ for this to be truly safe. Tens of
thousands of new websites are being created every day. No one can possibly keep a list
up-to-date enough to make blocking categories actually safe in practice.

{% /callout %}

### Keys

The way you _unblock part of the internet_ for your child is by granting them what we call
a **"key"**. A key either _a)_ "unlocks" a single **website**, or _b)_ grants a **single
app** access to the internet. These keys are organized into groups called **"keychains"**,
and it's here on the edit child screen that you have the ability to add keychains to your
child.

{% image src="create-keychain.png" caption="adding a keychain from the 'Edit child' screen" /%}

Until you add at least one keychain your child will have no access to the internet
whatsoever while Gertrude's filter is enabled.

## Creating your first key

You haven't created any of your own keychains yet, so currently the only keychains you can
attach to this new child are _publicly available keychains_. We'll talk more about those
later, but for now let's practice by _setting up your own keychain with a single key._

### Creating a new keychain

Either click the _"create keychain"_ button in the popup shown in the image above, or
alternatively you can click over to the _Keychains_ screen from the left-hand sidebar, as
shown below:

{% image src="create-keychain-2.png" caption="adding a keychain from the 'Keychains' screen" /%}

Click the **add keychain** button, then give your keychain a _name,_ and optionally a
_description._ Once you've named your keychain click the _"add a new key"_ button, and a
screen will pop up allowing you to create a new key.

{% image src="name-keychain.png" caption="Give your new keychain a name, then click 'create'" /%}

### Two _types_ of keys

There are two types of keys. The first, which is the most common, we call a **website
key.** It allows access to _a specific web address._ For example, if your child has a
specific online educational course or program that they access through a web browser, you
could add a website key granting them access to just that program's website.

The second type of key is an **app key.** These keys allow you to grant _specific
applications full access to the internet._ For instance, you could create an app key that
allows only the _Zoom app_ to bypass Gertrude's filter and have complete access to the
internet. You should only do this with apps that are narrowly focused and that you are
sure are safe for your children to use.

### Creating and attaching your first key

For the sake of this tutorial, start by creating a single _website_ key. Enter the address
of a website that you want your child to have access to, and leave the rest of the options
unchanged. If you can't think of a website to unlock, enter `how-to-type.com`, as we'll
use that example later in the tutorial. Click **"Create key"** to finish the process.

{% image src="create-key.png" caption="Create your first key" /%}

Now that you've got a key and a keychain, you need to do one more step: _attach that
keychain to your child._ Go back to the children screen, click to edit the child you added
earlier, and then click to add a keychain. Select the keychain you just created by its
name and save the child.

{% image src="attach-keychain.png" caption="On the 'Edit child' screen, add the keychain" /%}

## Connecting a computer

The final step you will need to take before installing the macOS app is _getting a code_
to connect this child to a Mac computer running Gertrude. To do so, click the **Add a
computer"** button on the edit child screen. You'll see a pop-up giving you a special
one-time connection code. Write this code down somewhere; you'll be using it shortly.

{% image src="add-device.png" caption="Click to add a device, and copy the connection code" /%}

For the next part of the process you'll need to switch over to the computer that will be
used by the child you're protecting. You might already be using that computer. But if
you're a parent working through this tutorial on your own computer and your child uses a
_different computer_ you'll need that computer in front of you to do the next few steps of
initial setup.

{% callout title="About shared computers" %}

If you and your child **share the same computer** you'll be staying on the same device for
the rest of this tutorial. You will however need to make sure you have _separate macOS
**users**_&mdash;one for you, and one for your child.

{% /callout %}

### Downloading the Gertrude macOS app

On the computer that will be protected, login to the macOS user that you desire to
protect, then open a web browser, visit the Gertrude website
[download page](https://gertrude.app/download), and click the download link to download a
copy of the most recent version of the Gertrude macOS app. Double-click on the downloaded
file and then drag the Gertrude application into the applications folder.

{% image src="dmg.png" caption="Drag the Gertrude app into Applications" /%}

Next, **double-click** on the Gertrude application icon in the applications folder to
launch it for the first time. Once Gertrude is launched, the only visible difference
you'll see is that _there will be a new icon in your menu bar,_ as shown below:

{% image src="menu-bar-icon.png" caption="The Gertrude app menu bar icon in the upper right corner" /%}

The first time you click this icon, Gertrude will prompt you to enter a **connection
code.** Enter the connection code that you wrote down earlier. When you submit the code
you should receive a confirmation that the Gertrude Mac app is successfully connected.

{% image src="connect-to-user.png" caption="Click to connect, and enter your connection code" /%}

### Enabling the internet filter

The next thing you need to do is to **turn on Gertrude's internet filter.** Getting the
filter fully activated takes a couple of steps, because the _operating system wants to
make very clear to you that Gertrude has your permission to filter all the internet
traffic on this computer._ To begin the process of starting the filter, click the Gertrude
icon again and then click the **"Turn on"** button as shown below:

{% image src="enable-filter.png" caption="Click 'Turn on' to begin the process of enabling the filter" /%}

At this point, the macOS operating system _will block Gertrude from installing a system
extension._ Click the button labeled **"Open Security Preferences"**, or manually open up
the System Preferences app, and choose _"Security & Privacy" > "General"._

{% image src="system-extension-blocked.png" caption="Click 'Open Security Preferences'" /%}

From the _"Security & Privacy" > "General"._ screen, click the _unlock_ icon to authorize,
and then choose to **allow** the system extension from Gertrude.

{% image src="security-allowance.png" caption="Allow Gertrude to install a system extension" /%}

As a final step, you should now see a prompt asking you if Gertrude can filter network
activity.

{% image src="allow-filtering.png" caption="Allow Gertrude to filter network content" /%}

**Congratulations!** Those steps are out of the way, and Gertrude has installed it's
network filter. You won't have to repeat those steps again.

## Exploring the Gertrude app

Next, let's take a few moments to explore the Gertrude app. Click the Gertrude app icon in
the menu bar once again. You should now see that _the filter is on._ Some of the options
in the drop-down menu are meant for your child to interact with, with one exception. The
item labeled **administrate** is only for you as the Gertrude account owner.

{% image src="app-menu-dropdown.png" caption="The main Gertrude menu dropdown" /%}

### The admin health-check screen

Click the _"administrate"_ link now, entering your admin user and password to
authenticate. You will see the Gertrude **health check screen.** This screen is meant to
give you a glanceable overview of the Gertrude app, and to help you troubleshoot and fix
common configuration issues.

{% image src="health-check.png" caption="The admin-only 'Health check' screen." /%}

Ideally, you should see all green checkmarks, although when you're first getting set up
it's common to have a few issues that need to be addressed. Take a moment and review any
items that are not green and resolve them.

### Taking the filter for a spin

Next, I close the admin window and open up a web browser like Google Chrome or Safari or
Firefox. If you try to visit an address on the internet, you will notice that the _page
does not load._ That's because the filter is running and blocking the entire internet with
the exception of the addresses that you have specifically unlocked. When Gertrude blocks
something, you'll see an empty error page that looks something like this:

{% image src="blocked.png" caption="What you'll see when Gertrude blocks a webpage" /%}

Earlier in this tutorial we created a website key. Let's test it now. _Try to visit the
website you specified when creating your first key._ You should notice that your web
browser _does allow that page to load._ This shows you that Gertrude's internet filter is
working properly, that is, blocking all internet request except those that you
specifically allowed.

{% image src="allowed.png" caption="This page was allowed because of the key we created earlier." /%}

{% callout type="note" title="That site looks funny..." %}

If you look closely, the website above doesn't look quite right. That's because it often
takes _more than one key_ to get a site fully unblocked. Check out our
[unblocking guide](/docs/unblocking-guide) for more details.

{% /callout %}

## Techniques for unlocking websites

It's great to know that the Gertrude filter is working, but you probably need _many more
websites unblocked in order for the computer to be usable_. In this section we will go
over to techniques to make it _simpler and faster_ for you to accomplish this.

### Public keychains

The first technique is taking advantage of previously created **public keychains.** As we
mentioned above, keys in Gertrude are always _grouped into keychains._ There are several
reasons for this, but probably the main one is that it _allows clusters of related keys to
be easily shared and re-used._ As an example, the website
[Art of Problem Solving (AOPS)](https://artofproblemsolving.com) is a widely used online
educational platform. In order for it to work properly on a computer protected by
Gertrude, it requires a _handful of keys to unlock the web addresses used by that
platform._ There are thousands of students enrolled in AOPS classes. So it would be a
shame if every Gertrude account owner had to re-create the _same set of keys_ to grant
access to AOPS. Instead, **Gertrude offers a public keychain** containing just the keys to
unblock apps, which _many people can share._

### Adding a public keychain

To see how this works, let's temporarily give the AOPS keychain to your child. Go back to
the computer where you set up and created your Gertrude account. Navigate to the
[Children](https://parents.gertrude.app/children) screen and _select the child you
recently added._ Click to add a keychain, and then search through the bottom section which
lists public keychains, until you find the one for **AOPS.** Choose that keychain and save
the child.

{% image src="aops-keychain.png" caption="Find and add the 'AOPS' public keychain to your child" /%}

At this point, if you go back to the computer that is being protected by the Gertrude Mac
app, you should be able to navigate to
[artofproblemsolving.com](https://artofproblemsolving.com) and it should load properly.
This demonstrates the _power and flexibility of using and sharing keychains._

You may want to spend a few minutes browsing through the list of publicly available
keychains, you may find that one or more of them is useful to you. You'll also notice that
some of the keychains are focused on unlocking a specific **website** or website-based
programs, while others are focused on granting access to specific, narrowly focused
**applications** like email clients or video conferencing apps.

You can also _organize your own keys into keychains,_ but there is no requirement that you
do so. Technically every key must belong to a keychain, but if you want, you can put _all
of the keys you create onto a single keychain._ You may however find that it makes sense
to you to also group your own keys topically. If you have multiple kids this can make it
easier to mix and match and share keychains without causing more work for yourself.

## Unlock requests

Probably the most common way to unlock parts of the internet for your children is by
**responding to a child-initiated unlock request.**

Move back to the computer (or switch to the macOS user) being protected by the Gertrude
macOS app. Start by _thinking of a website that your child needs access to_ that you
currently don't have a key for. _Try to visit that website in a web browser_ and you'll
notice once again that it is blocked: Gertrude's filter is not allowing access to that
website, because there is no key instructing it to.

{% callout title="Need inspiration?" %}

If you're not sure what to practice unlocking, you could use `khanacademy.org`, a popular
and free learning platform, which we use in the screenshots below.

{% /callout %}

Click the Gertrude app icon in the menu bar and select the item entitled **View network
traffic.**

{% image src="view-network-traffic.png" caption="Click the 'View network traffic...' option" /%}

This brings up _a window which shows you a live display of all the requests that the
Gertrude filter is handling and blocking._

{% image src="network-requests-window.png" caption="The network traffic window" /%}

{% callout type="warning" title="Where's the window?" %}

Sometimes the windows that are opened by the Gertrude app can be hard to find. They
sometimes appear **behind other windows** or _don't jump to the top of the screen_ like
you would expect. So sometimes you need to hunt around just a little bit to find the
window.

{% /callout %}

With the network requests Gertrude window open, **refresh the blocked page** in your web
browser. You _should see one or more new blocked requests_ flowing in to the Gertrude
window.

{% image src="khan-blocked.png" caption="Lots of stuff in the network window is normal." /%}

Assuming we can find the right request (more on that in a moment), the Gertrude app allows
us to then **send an unlock request** to have that specific website unblocked. Once you
get used to this, it's common that this method becomes the _primary way in which you
create new keys for your children._

### The unlock request flow

1. A child tries to access a website on the internet, and are _blocked._
2. They open the network traffic window, and _find the request that was blocked._
3. They then send an _unlock request_ to you, the admin, requesting that that website be
   unlocked.
4. Then you, the admin, have the opportunity to _review and approve or reject_ that
   request. You approve the unlock request by _creating a key_ that unblocks that web
   address.

We'll walk through all four steps now, and we have
[a more detailed article](/docs/unblocking-guide) with advanced tips and tricks on
unlocking that you can refer to later, if necessary. Start by **1) clearing the requests**
to help you focus and find the correct request, then **2) click to filter by the partial
word `khan`** as shown below:

{% image src="filter-requests.png" caption="Clear the screen, then filter by 'khan'" /%}

Next, **try the page again, by hitting the refresh button** in your browser. This should
trigger another block, but this time we're ready for it, we've cleared away the noise and
are filtering for blocks containing `khan`. You should see something like this:

{% image src="isolated-requests.png" caption="Huzzah! We found the blocked request!" /%}

To _submit an unlock request_ for the block, **click the small unlock icon**, optionally
add a comment, and then **click submit**.

{% image src="create-unlock-request.png" caption="Click the unlock icon, then submit." /%}

### Accepting an unlock request

Now that the unlock request is submitted, put back on your admin hat (you've been
impersonating your _child_ for the last few minutes), and visit the
[home screen](https://dash.gertrude.app) of the admin web dashboard. You'll notice that
there is a new unlock request visible:

{% image src="dashboard-unlock-request.png" caption="The recently submitted unlock request in your admin dashboard" /%}

Click to **accept** the request, and you'll be taken to a screen where Gertrude recommends
a key that will unlock the given request. You're free to stop and edit the key if you
want, but for now, just click to **"Select keychain"**:

{% image src="unlock-key.png" caption="You can review and modify the key that will unlock the request" /%}

You next get to choose _which keychain the key should belong to_&mdash;you only have one
keychain, so select it and click submit.

{% image src="select-keychain.png" caption="Select a keychain, and submit." /%}

Back on the computer running the Gertrude macOS app, you should see a _notification that
the unlock request was accepted._

{% image src="unlock-request-accepted-notification.png" caption="Back on the child's Mac, a notification that it was accepted." /%}

And if you refresh the web page, you'll _now have access_ to the previously blocked site.

{% image src="khan-unblocked.png" caption="Success! The site is now unblocked." /%}

You should spend a few minutes with each of your children, showing them how to identify
blocked requests and send unlock requests. In our experience, kids of all ages pick it up
pretty fast. Once you're in a groove, your children will send you unlock requests when
they need something, and you'll be _notified via email, text, or Slack_, and can approve
or reject from your own computer or phone, no matter where you are.

## Filter suspensions

There are times when, for a short period of time, it's convenient to **disable Gertrude's
filter completely.** Examples of these sorts of situations include when your child is
taking an online test, or doing some unusual activity or research. In these cases it
_doesn't make sense to go through the work of creating keys or unlock requests_ because
the websites they will be visiting _won't be needed again._ For times like this, you as
the admin have the ability to **remotely suspend the filter** for a designated period of
time, after which it will resume normal filtering.

{% callout type="warning" title="Is it safe to suspend the filter?" %}

If you have enabled **monitoring** of your children, all of their activity will continue
to be recorded and uploaded for your later review. As long as your children know this,
we've found that these temporary filter suspensions are very safe.

{% /callout %}

### The suspend filter request flow

The way filter suspensions work is similar (although simpler) than unlock requests.

1. one of your children _submits a "suspend filter request"_ from the Gertrude macOS app.
2. you (the admin) _receive a notification_ via text message, email, or Slack
3. the link in the notification takes you to a screen where you can _accept or deny_

To request that the filter be disabled, the child begins by clicking the **"Disable filter
temporarily..."** option in the Gertrude menu dropdown.

{% image src="disable-filter-temporarily.png" caption="Click to request a filter suspension" /%}

The child is shown a form where they can fill out the _length of time_ they wish to have
the filter suspended, and optionally a _comment explaining why_ the filter suspension is
being requested.

{% image src="request-filter-suspension.png" caption="The child writes a comment and picks a duration" /%}

Once submitted (provided you've configured an admin notification in your
[settings](https://parents.gertrude.app/settings) screen), you'll receive an email, text
or Slack letting you know that your child is requesting a filter suspension. You can grant
or deny the request, and if desired, also change the amount of time requested.

{% image src="accept-filter-suspension.png" caption="You get to grant or deny the request, and modify the duration" /%}

## Reviewing child activity

If you elected to enable monitoring of your child, you will be able to **review your
child's activity** from within the Gertrude web admin. If you enabled key logging and
screenshots as recommended in the beginning of this tutorial as recommended, you should
already have a few items that you can review. To see how this works, login to your
Gertrude web admin account and go to the _children_ screen and select the **activity**
link from the child you added.

{% image src="users-activity.png" caption="Go to 'Children' and click 'Activity'" /%}

You should see on the next screen that there are some _unreviewed activity items._ Click
to view these and you will see a mixture of screenshots and text that was typed by the
child.

{% image src="unreviewed-activity.png" caption="Click to review activity" /%}

{% image src="activity-items.png" caption="Activity items are a mix of screenshots and keystrokes (if both enabled)" /%}

_Approving_ an item is essentially the same thing as _deleting_ it. The idea is that an
"approved" item does not need to be seen again. It's rare that you'll actually approve
items individually&mdash;you'll notice when you have large amounts of items to review,
that Gertrude gives you the option to approve them _in chunks of one hundred at a time_,
and also you can _approve an entire day at once_ at the bottom of the screen.

{% callout type="note" title="Discussing screenshots with children" %}

It's not absolutely necessary that you always meticulously review each and every activity
item. But we **strongly recommend** that you at least review _some_ of them so that you
can **periodically make comments** to your kids about what you've seen and read while
reviewing. The _knowledge that they are being watched_ is one of the key components of
what makes your children safe.

{% /callout %}

## App Administrative Actions

Gertrude is built so that after the initial setup, you can _manage your children from any
computer, phone or device_ where you have access to the internet. However, sometimes it is
convenient to do _some basic administrative tasks_ directly on the your child's computer.
For this reason the Gertrude app has some special protected admin-only options that you as
the account owner can access and make use of when you wish. To access this screen, click
the Gertrude app icon in the menu bar, then select _"Administrate..."_ and supply your
admin username and password.

{% image src="administrate.png" caption="Click for admin-only options on your child's computer" /%}

On the left-hand side click the **actions** navigation item.

{% image src="admin-actions.png" caption="Click for admin-only options on your child's computer" /%}

From this screen you may perform a number of _admin-only_ actions, including:

- checking for Gertrude _app updates_
- reconnecting to a different child
- manually \_stopping, the filter
- _quitting_ the app
