---
title: 'Gertrude: The Best Mac Keylogger'
description:
  Using Gertrude is the cornerstone of keeping your kids safe online, but it can't prevent
  every kind of problem. Take a few minutes to review this list of tips and common
  mistakes.
---

{% .lead %} With an internet increasingly filled with dangerous, inappopriate and damaging
content, more and more parents are looking for ways to monitor their kids online time.
Gertrude can help, with a built-in, easy-to-use mac keylogger.

## Kids online activity shouldn't be private

If you had the time to sit next to each of your kids for all of their daily computer
usage, that would be ideal. You would be able to _see everything they did,_ keep them away
from the dangerous parts of the internet, and guide them towards educational and healthy
activity. Nothing they did online would feel private, as they would feel themselves
continually under your watchful care. The built-in accountability provided by your
attention would prevent any curious and dangerous exploration.

Sadly, most of us don't have the time or bandwidth to watch our kids screens 100% of the
time. But technology can help us here. Gertrude comes with a built-in mac keyogger which
can record everything your child types, and also take regular screenshots of all of their
activity. All of their typing is securely uploaded to your parental account, where you can
review it for up to 2 weeks afterwards, on your phone or computer

## Not Spying, Accountability and Safety

This isn't spying&mdash;Gertrude doesn't allow keylogging or screenshot monitoring to be
done secretly under any circumstances. We clearly notify your child _the entire time their
typing is being recorded_. If you're looking for some way to do this secretly, you're in
the wrong place. Again, the right mental model is that of a parent sitting next to their
child. They should know they are being watched&mdash;both because it respects their
privacy, and also because it promotes healthy self-regulation.

{% image src="recording-keystrokes.png" caption="We clearly display when keylogging is active" alt="Mac keylogger to protect kids" /%}

## Enabling Keylogging in Gertrude

To enable keylogging, log in to the [parent's dashboard](https://dash.gertrude.app/users)
and go to the **Users** screen. Click the **Edit** button for the child you would like to
betin monitoring. Click to enable and save the user.

{% image src="enable-keylogging.png" caption="Gertrude's controls for enabling keylogging" alt="Enable keylogging with a single click" /%}

## Reviewing Keylogging in Gertrude

Once configured, the Gertrude Mac app will constantly record your child's typing, and
every few minutes upload the data to our servers where only you the parent can have access
to it. Then, whenever you want, you can log into the parental dashboard, go to the
**Users** screen and click to view the **Activity** of your child.

{% image src="users-activity.png" caption="Click the <b>Activity</b> button to review keylogging" alt="Review mac keylogging" /%}

The activity screen will show a continual stream of uploaded keystrokes, mixed with
screenshots (if you also have that feature enabled).

{% image src="review-keylogging.png" caption="Your child's typing, organized by app" alt="Review mac keylogger results" /%}
