---
title: Getting Started
description:
  Everything you need to get started protecting your kids with Gertrude for macOS.
---

There are a handful of things you need to do to get up and running with Gertrude. This
tutorial is meant to walk you through the required steps, and also to give you a bit of
practice using all of the core features of Gertrude. {% .lead %}

---

_**NOTE:** If you'd prefer to watch a step-by-step **video** showing all aspects of
getting started with Gertrude, [click here](https://youtu.be/JbLjoR214kI)._

---

## Step 1: Set up your parent account

To start out, if you haven't already created a **Gertrude account** you'll need to do that
first. To create an account [click this link](https://parents.gertrude.app/signup) and
follow the sign-up instructions. No credit card is required, the first 60 days are
_totally free, and you can cancel at any time._

### Adding your first child

Once you have your Gertrude account created you'll need to start by adding at least one
child. A **"child"** in Gertrude represents _someone that you want to protect._ This is
very often one of your own children if you are a parent using Gertrude to protect your
kids&mdash;but it could also be a peer whom you are protecting in a relationship of
accountability. You'll need to add _at least one child_ to do anything useful with
Gertrude.

{% callout title="Regarding terminology..." %}

The most common scenario is for Gertrude to be used by _parents_ protecting their _kids_.
But that's definitely not the only way to use Gertrude. Peers, friends, relatives, etc.,
can all be protected, but for the sake of simplicity, we use the language of
**parent/child** throughout the Gertrude app and websites.

{% /callout %}

To _add a child,_ click the link in the [dashboard](https://parents.gertrude.app) of the
Gertrude parents website, or select "Children" from the side bar on the left hand and
click the button to add a new child.

{% image src="create-first-user.png" caption="Go to the 'Children' screen to add your first child" /%}

Enter the child's _name_, and click to save the new child.

{% image src="add-child.png" caption="Enter your child's name, and click 'save'" /%}

### Mac App Connection Code

To finish setting up your first child, we'll need to install the Gertrude Mac app on their
computer. But before we do that, you'll grab a one-time connection code to connect the app
to the child you just added. To do so, click the **Get connection code** button on the
next screen. You'll see a pop-up giving you a special one-time connection code. Write this
code down somewhere; you'll be using it shortly.

{% image src="get-connection-code.png" caption="Click <b>Get connection code</b>" /%}
{% image src="got-connection-code.png" caption="Then copy down the code" /%}

## Step 2: Connect a Computer

For the next part of the process you'll need to **switch** over to **the computer that
will be used by the child you're protecting.** You might already be using that computer.
But if you're a parent working through this tutorial on your own computer and your child
uses a _different computer_ you'll need that computer in front of you to do the next few
steps of initial setup.

{% callout title="About shared computers" %}

If you and your child **share the same computer** you might already be using that computer
right now. If that's the case, you can either log into the parents site **on your phone**
and finish this tutorial logged into this computer as your child; _or_ finish the setup by
switching back and forth between the Mac users on the shared computer. For safety, you
will need to make sure you have _separate macOS **users**_&mdash;one for you, and one for
your child.

{% /callout %}

### Downloading &amp; Install the Gertrude macOS App

On the computer that will be protected, login to the macOS user that you desire to
protect, then open a web browser, visit the Gertrude website
[download page](https://gertrude.app/download) **(www.gertrude.app/download)**, and click
the download link to get the most recent version of the Gertrude macOS app. Double-click
on the downloaded file and then drag the Gertrude application into the applications
folder.

{% image src="dmg.png" caption="Drag the Gertrude app into Applications" /%}

Next, **double-click** on the Gertrude application icon in the applications folder to
launch it for the first time.

{% image src="launch-gertrude-from-applications.png" caption="Open 'Applications' and double-click to launch Gertrude for the first time" /%}

After you launch the app for the first time, you'll see the Gertrude **welcome wizard,**
which will guide you through all of the necessary steps to get the app fully installed
with the correct permissions from the operating system.

{% image src="welcome-wizard.png" caption="The welcome window will appear and guide you through the setup process" /%}

After a few clicks, you'll see the spot where you **should enter the connection code** you
got in step 1:

{% image src="connect-a-child.png" caption="The welcome window will appear and guide you through the setup process" /%}

Because Gertrude needs to do things like:

- Filter the internet
- Send your child notifications when you unlock a site
- Record screenshots of their activity
- Record what they type

We have to **request several special permissions** during the welcome and setup process.
The welcome wizard will guide you through all the required permissions, but a few of them
Apple has made **bizarrely unintuitive**, so be on guard and carefully follow the
instructions provided!

{% image src="dont-get-tricked.png" caption="A few of the permissions steps are unintuitive, so follow the directions closely!" /%}

{% callout title="Uh-oh, now there's no internet!" type="warning" %}

Once Gertrude is fully installed with the system extension running, it immediately starts
doing its job of **blocking ALL interent activity you haven't explicitly allowed**. And
since you're just getting started, you haven't allowed anything yet! That means your
child's computer can't do anything at all on the internet, which can be a little bit of a
short-term shock for parents, especially if your kids need to do work online right away.

Don't worry, you'll shortly learn how to unlock parts of the interent by adding public
keychains and creating your own keys. But until then, if your child needs to use the
computer for school right away **put Gertrude on "easy mode" by giving lots of filter
suspensions** until you get the websites and apps they need unblocked.

If you haven't disabled screenshots, you'll be able to see their online activity, and it's
much safer to have the filter suspended with screenshots than for you to **get frustrated
and stop using Gertrude**. So use lots of filter suspensions to smooth your transition
until you have everything dialed in.

{% /callout %}

## Step 3: Setup Notifications

Now that you've got the app installed, two of the main things you'll likely want to do
next involve you being able to get a notification from your child's computer.
Specifically, we want you to get a notification when:

1. your child requests to have the **filter suspended**
2. or, your child requests to have a **site unblocked**

Head over to the [Settings](https://parents.gertrude.app/settings) screen of the parents
website:

{% image src="parent-settings.png" caption="In the parents website, go to 'Settings' to create notifications" /%}

You've already verified your email during the account creation process, so we can notify
you by email if you'd like. But most parents prefer to get a text message, so **we
recommend you take a moment to verify your phone number as a notification method.** Click
**Add a method** to start the process.

{% image src="add-notification-method.png" caption="We recommend you add your phone number to receive text message notifications" /%}

Once you have verified the method/s you'd like to use to be notified, **set up a
notification for BOTH unlock requests and filter suspensions:**

{% image src="create-two-notifications.png" caption="We recommend you create notifications for unlock requests AND filter suspensions" /%}

## Step 4: Practice Suspending the Filter

Now that you've got your notifications setup, let's take a quick minute to learn how
filter suspension requests work.

Back **on your child's computer**, click the Gertrude icon in the menu bar in the
upper-left corner of the screen:

{% image src="menu-bar-icon.png" caption="Click the Gertrude menu bar icon" /%}

Then click the **Suspend filter** button, as shown here:

{% image src="suspend-filter-button.png" caption="Click the 'Suspend filter' button" /%}

Choose a duration, and click next:

{% image src="suspension-duration.png" caption="Choose a duration, then click 'Next'" /%}

Try entering a comment, and then click **Request suspension**.

{% image src="request-suspension.png" caption="Enter a comment and submit the request" /%}

At this point you should receive a notification (if you completed step 3). When you get a
text, email or Slack, you should see that your child has requested the filter be
suspended, and their comment. Try **granting the request**.

{% image src="grant-filter-suspension.png" caption="Grant the request" /%}

Your child will receive a notification on their Mac that the suspension was granted, and
clicking the Gertrude menu bar icon will show that the filter is temporarily suspended.

{% image src="filter-suspended.png" caption="Filter is temporarily suspended, but monitoring continues" /%}

**Congrats!** You now know how to request and grant a suspension. As mentioned earlier,
using filter suspensions is highly recommended while you're getting going with Gertrude,
because it can take a little time to get all of the normal everyday parts of the internet
unlocked for your kids. It's much better to suspend the filter for chunks of time than
give up and uninstall Gertrude and lose all filtering and monitoring completely.

Speaking of which, Gertrude by default also **indicates when screenshots are taken DURING
a suspension** which helps you hone in on particularly important stretches of activity to
review.

{% image src="during-filter-suspension-activity.png" caption="Gertrude will show you which screenshots were taken DURING a suspension" /%}

{% callout title="Grant a suspension from the computer" %}

If you're physically with your child when they need a filter suspension, and you'd rather
not reply to an email or text, you can always **manually grant a filter suspension** right
from the computer, using an admin username and password by clicking the **Grant
suspension** button.

{% image src="grant-admin-suspension.png" caption="Use your admin password to grant a suspension right away" /%}

{% /callout %}

## Step 5: Add a Public Keychain {% id="add-public-keychain" %}

With Gertrude, the way you allow access to parts of the internet is with **keys**. Keys
_unlock_ parts of the internet. Gertrude's filter works by blocking the _entire internet_,
only allowing access to the sites and apps you specifically designate as safe.

{% callout title="Our unique approach" %}

Most **other internet safety app** that filter the internet work by _blocking categories
of websites._ This sounds like a great idea in theory, but in practice the internet is
just _too large and growing too fast_ for this to be truly safe. Tens of thousands of new
websites are being created every day. No one can possibly keep a list up-to-date enough to
make blocking categories actually safe in practice.

{% /callout %}

When you first install Gertrude, your child has **zero keys** by default, which means they
can't access any of the internet. Super safe, but not terribly useful. Let's fix that.

Go to the [Children](https://parents.gertrude.app/children) tab of the parent's website,
and click the **Settings** link for your child:

{% image src="child-settings.png" caption="Go to Children > Settings" /%}

Near the _bottom of the screen_ you should see a single keychain with zero keys. This
keychain is created automatically for you when you create the child, as a default spot to
hold keys for your child. Many parents use just one keychain to hold all of the keys their
kids need, but others like to organize keys by topic (games, school, church), class, or
anything else. Using more than one keychain allows you to share them between kids, and
also take advantage of more advanced controls, like setting schedules for certain
keychains. But for now, having one keychain we can add keys to is all we need.

### Public Keychains

There are **two types** of keychains in Gertrude: 1) keychains that you own and can add
keys to, and 2) keychains that we've created for all Gertrude parents to use&mdash;these
are called **public keychains.** We maintain a growing list of public keychains to make it
easier to quickly unlock common websites, apps, and online programs. Adding a few public
keychains is a great way to get started unlocking some safe portions of the internet for
your child. Let's add one to your child.

Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click **Add keychain.**

{% image src="add-keychain.png" caption="Click 'Add keychain' near the bottom of the screen" /%}

Click to view **Public keychains**, then try searching for `Khan`. Select the keychain,
and click **Add keychain**.

{% image src="khan-public-keychain.png" caption="Search for a public keychain and add it" /%}

Once you've added the keychain, be sure to click **Save child.**

{% image src="save-child.png" caption="Then click 'Save child' to add the keychain" /%}

Once you've saved, test it out on your child's computer by going to
[https://khanacademy.org](https://khanacademy.org).

{% image src="khan-unblocked.png" caption="Your child now has access to the sites allowed by the public keychain" /%}

{% callout %}

We're always looking to add **more high-quality public keychains,** so if your child is
using a service, website, or school that you'd like to see a public keychain for, please
[reach out](/contact) and let us know!

{% /callout %}

## Step 6: Create A Key Manually

Ok, so you've added a public keychain that unlocks part of the internet. But we don't have
public keychains for everything, you're going to need to know how to create your own keys.
There's two basic ways to create keys, we'll cover both, starting with **manually creating
a key**.

To create your own key, start by going to the
[Keychains](https://parents.gertrude.app/keychains) screen, and click to edit the default
keychain that was created for you.

{% image src="edit-keychain.png" caption="Go to 'Keychains', then click 'Edit'..." /%}

{% image src="create-first-key.png" caption="Then click 'Create key'" /%}

### Creating and attaching your first key

For the sake of this tutorial, start by creating a single _website_ key. Enter the address
of a website that you want your child to have access to, and leave the rest of the options
unchanged. If you can't think of a website to unlock, enter `nationalgeographic.com`, as
we'll use that example later in the tutorial. Click **Create key** to finish the process.

{% image src="create-key.png" caption="Create your first key" /%}

Next, back on your child's computer, try to visit
[kids.nationalgeographic.com](https://kids.nationalgeographic.com). You may notice that it
is only **sort of** loading.

{% image src="nat-geo-partially-unblocked.png" caption="The site is loading, but if you look closely, all is not right..." /%}

## Step 7: Create Keys by Sending Unlock Requests

The reason the website we tried to load didn't fully work correctly is that _most websites
ALSO load code from several OTHER websites_, so it usually takes **more than one key** to
get them fully working. This is one of the reasons we group keys into **keychains**.
There's a more technical explanation [here](/docs/unblocking-guide) if you're interested.

To fix this, we'll show you the more common way to create keys in Gertrude, using **Unlock
Requests**, and in doing so we'll explore Gertrude's **Blocked requests** window. Go up to
the menu bar icon again, and this time click **Blocked requests**.

{% image src="blocked-requests.png" caption="Click the 'Blocked requests' button" /%}

When the Blocked Requests window appears, it will start showing you a list of **every
network connection being blocked** by Gertrude. Your computer tries to make many network
connections, so it's very common to see **a lot of requests** in this window, like this:

{% image src="lots-of-blocks.png" caption="By default, this window shows ALL blocks, which can be a little much..." /%}

To make it easier to see the blocks **we actually care about**, type in a **filter** term
to isolate requests just coming from the web browser Safari (or whatever browser you're
using), and then press the **Clear** button to clear out old requests.

{% image src="filter-and-clear.png" caption="Filter by app name, and clear requests to get a clean slate" /%}

Next, **RELOAD the broken website** so we can see just the blocks we care about. They
should come in _at the same time we press refresh_. Once they do, click the **PAUSE**
button to prevent any new requests from streaming in:

{% image src="paused-requests.png" caption="Much better! By REFRESHING then PAUSING, we isolated the important blocks" /%}

Now we can select the blocked requests and **send an unlock request.**

{% image src="send-unlock-request.png" caption="Select the blocked domains, and click 'Send unlock request'" /%}

### Accepting an Unlock Request

Now that the unlock request is submitted, put back on your parent hat (you've been
impersonating your _child_ for the last few minutes), and visit the
[dashboard](https://parents.gertrude.app) of the parents website. You'll notice that there
is a new unlock request visible:

{% callout %}

If you've setup notifications as recommended, you won't need to locate the unlock request
in the dashboard. Instead you'll get a text, email or Slack with a link to immediately
decide.

{% /callout %}

{% image src="dashboard-unlock-request.png" caption="The recently submitted unlock request in your parents website" /%}

Click to **accept** the request, and you'll be taken to a screen where you get to choose
which **keychain** to add it to. You likely only have one, so go aheand select it and then
click **Review key**.

{% image src="select-keychain.png" caption="Select a keychain, then click 'Review key'" /%}

Next you'll be taken to a screen where Gertrude recommends a key that will unlock the
blocked request. You're free to stop and edit the key if you want, but for now, just click
to **"Submit"**:

{% image src="unlock-key.png" caption="You can review and modify the key that will unlock the request" /%}

Back on the computer running the Gertrude macOS app, your child should see a _notification
that the unlock request was accepted._ And if you refresh the web page, you should see
that the site is now fully unblocked!

{% image src="nat-geo-unblocked.png" caption="Success! With all the keys created, the site loads fully" /%}

{% callout %}

You should spend a few minutes with each of your children, showing them how to identify
blocked requests and send unlock requests. In our experience, kids of all ages pick it up
pretty fast. Once you're in a groove, your children will send you unlock requests when
they need something, and you'll be _notified via email, text, or Slack_, and can approve
or reject from your own computer or phone, no matter where you are.

{% /callout %}

## Step 8: Practice Reviewing Child Activity

If you haven't disabled monitoring of your child, you will be able to **review your
child's activity** right from within the Gertrude parents website. In fact, if you've been
following along with this tutorial you should already have a few items that you can
review. To see how this works, login to the Gertrude parents website and go to the
_children_ screen and select the **activity** link from the child you added.

{% image src="child-activity.png" caption="Go to 'Children' and click 'Activity'" /%}

You should see on the next screen that there are some _unreviewed activity items._ Click
to view these and you will see a mixture of screenshots and text that was typed by the
child.

{% image src="unreviewed-activity.png" caption="Click to review activity" /%}

{% image src="activity-items.png" caption="Activity items are a mix of screenshots and keystrokes (if both enabled)" /%}

_Approving_ an item is essentially the same thing as _deleting_ it. The idea is that an
"approved" item does not need to be seen again. It's rare that you'll actually approve
items individually&mdash;you'll notice when you have large amounts of items to review,
that Gertrude gives you the option to approve them _in chunks of one hundred at a time_,
and also you can _approve an entire day at once_ at the bottom of the screen.

{% callout type="note" title="Discussing screenshots with children" %}

It's not absolutely necessary that you always meticulously review each and every activity
item. But we **strongly recommend** that you at least review _some_ of them so that you
can **periodically make comments** to your kids about what you've seen and read while
reviewing. The _knowledge that they are being watched_ is one of the key components of
what makes your children safe.

{% /callout %}

## Step 9: Explore More...

You've got all the basics now, but there are more features you might want to check out,
including:

- Creating a **Downtime** schedule for your child when they get zero internet access
  (usually at night)
- Assigning keychains to be active for certain **times of day** or **days of the week**
- A feed of [Security events](https://parents.gertrude.app/security-events) that you can
  review to get a birds-eye view of your events to keep an eye on for you children's
  safety
- Our companion [iOS app](/blog/how-parents-can-block-images-gif-search-ios-18) which
  plugs holes in Apple's Screen Time
- The internet's best
  [step-by-step guide](/blog/definitive-guide-to-locking-down-an-iphone) to locking down
  an iPhone for a child.

If you have any questions, feature requests, or need help with anything, please don't
hesitate to [contact us](/contact). We'd love to hear from you!
