---
title: Unblocking Websites
description: Quidem magni aut exercitationem maxime rerum eos.
---

## Quis vel iste dicta

Sounds pretty easy right? Well, sort of. It is relatively easy, but there is one
complicating factor. That is, that it can be difficult to find the right request to
unblock.

However, you may find that there are dozens or even hundreds of requests being shown in
the screen. There is a good reason for this that is important for you to understand. You
may have never thought about it before, but your computer is constantly running many
different programs at the same time. Some of these are programs or applications that you
have specifically launched, but there are many other programs that your computer runs on
its own behind the scenes to take care of a myriad of tasks to support the ongoing
operation of your computer. The Gertrude internet filter blocks all of these requests by
default, which is the reason why you may see so many blocked requests on the screen at one
time. However, this can make it hard to find the blocked request that you are interested
in. Because, the vast majority of these blocked requests don't matter at all and will
never cause you any problems that you notice. So it's OK for Gertrude to continue blocking
these requests on your behalf. What you need to do is find out or find the request that
you specifically want to unlock. To make that easier here are a couple tips and tricks.

The network request window has a filter text area. If you type something into this area,
it will only show you requests that are related to the text that you typed in,. So it's
very important to use this filter text to narrow down your search. A good way to start, is
to type in a portion of the domain that you are trying to reach. Then click the clear
button to clear out any old requests that matched your filter, and refresh your browser to
try to load that page again. Refreshing the browser will cause the Gertrude filter to
block that network request one more time, and hopefully you'll be able to see it in your
filtered view. As shown below. If you find what you think is the request that is being
blocked, then just click the lock icon and you will be able to submit an unlock request.
Go ahead and submit an unlock request to practice this workflow.

Back on the computer where you are logged in as the account owner go to the Gertrude
account dashboard and you'll see a notification that you have received an unlock request.
Click to review. This will bring you to a screen where you can see details about what the
filter blocked. If you trust that the website being requested for unblocking is safe you
can click to except the unlock request. Once you do this Gertrude will communicate back to
the protected users Mac computer and from that point on that website will be allowed by
the filter.

A couple other tips and tricks include the following. If you can't find the blocked
request by typing a portion of the URL or domain, try filtering by the application itself.
That means the name of the browser you are using. It might be Safari or chrome or Firefox
or brave or something like that. Another trick is to quit temporary Lee other open
applications, to cut down on the number of extraneous requests that you have to sift
through. Also, you might find it helpful to close every other tab of the browser you are
using, as the other tabs might also be making internet requests as well.

You will want to show whoever it is that is being protected by this Gertrude account how
this works. That's a terrible sentence. The user of the Mac computer being protected
should be shown how to do this. And our experience kids pick up the scale very quickly,
that is they learn how to send unlock requests because they are motivated to get things
unblocked and working.

Another aside: frequently you will find that in order to unblock a website and get it
entirely working properly, that you will actually need to unblock a handful of website
addresses. This is normal, and is caused by the nature of the technology used to build
modern websites. Most or many websites require additional supporting files to work
properly, and these supporting files are often spread across several different website
addresses. This is part of why having shareable, reusable keychains is so important. We
have more information explaining this concept over here.
